.TH man 1 "23 Sep 2019" "focus-stack 1.0" "focus-stack man page"
.SH NAME
focus-stack \- combine photos to create extended depth of field image
.SH SYNOPSIS
focus-stack [options] file1.jpg file2.jpg ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
focus-stack takes a set of photos taken at different focus settings and
combines them into one, selecting the sharpest source image for each pixel
position. This is commonly called extended depth of field, or focus stacking.
Typical use is for microscope photography where it is difficult to obtain
large enough depth of field to cover the whole subject.
.PP
Usually good results are obtained with the default settings, but following
options are available:

.TP
\fB\-\-output=\fI\,output.jpg\/\fR
Set output filename. If file already exists, it will be overwritten.

.TP
\fB\-\-reference=\fI\,index\/\fR
Select image index (starting from 0) to use as alignment reference.
Images in a stack will usually vary in scale and position.
All other images are resized and rotated to match with this image.
This also determines the scale of the output image, which is important
for performing measurements. By default middle image of the stack is
used as reference.

.TP
\fB\-\-global-align\fR
By default each image is aligned against its neighbour. This improves
results in deep stacks, as blur at the extreme focus levels can make
direct alignment to reference inaccurate. However, if the images given
as argument are not in correct order, or if some of them are of poorer
quality, this option can be specified to align directly against the
reference image.

.TP
\fB\-\-full-resolution-align\fR
By default the resolution of images used in alignment step is limited
to 2048x2048 pixels. This improves performance, and because sub-pixel
accuracy is used in computing the gradients, higher resolution rarely
improves results. Specifying this option will force the use of full
resolution images in alignment.

.TP
\fB\-\-no-whitebalance\fR
The application tries to compensate for any white balance differences
between photos automatically. If camera white balance is set manually,
this option can be specified to skip the unnecessary white balance
adjustment.

.TP
\fB\-\-no-contrast\fR
If camera exposure is manually controlled, this option can be used to
skip unnecessary exposure compensation.

.TP
\fB\-\-threads=\fI\,count\/\fR
Set the number of parallel threads in use. By default uses the number
of CPU cores detected plus one to feed possible GPU accelerator. Lower
number of threads also reduces memory consumption.

.TP
\fB\-\-no-opencl\fR
By default OpenCL-based GPU acceleration is used if available. This
option can be specified to disable it.

.TP
\fB\-\-consistency=\fI\,level\/\fR
Set the level of consistency filter applied to the depth map, in range
0 to 2. Higher level reduces artefacts and noise in output image, but
can also result in removing small objects that appear against a textured
background. By default the highest filter level 2 is used.

.TP
\fB\-\-denoise=\fI\,level\/\fR
Set level of wavelet-based denoise filter applied to the result image.
Because focus stacking selects the largest difference from source images,
it has a tendency to increase noise. The denoising step reduces all
wavelet values by this amount, which corresponds directly to pixel values.
The default value of 1.0 removes noise that is on the order of +- 1 pixel
value.

.TP
\fB\-\-save-steps\fR
Save intermediate images from processing steps. This includes the aligned
images and the final grayscale image before color reassignment.

.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
Report each step as it begins and ends, and also the alignment parameters
and other detailed information.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.B focus-stack IMG*.JPG
.fi
Combine all images in current directory, and write output to
.B output.jpg
.

.nf
.B focus-stack --verbose --output=stacked.jpg IMG*.JPG
.fi
Combine all images, giving detailed printout of steps and write output to
.B stacked.jpg


.SH GPU ACCELERATION
This application uses OpenCV library and its OpenCL acceleration interface.
The GPU used for acceleration can be selected by environment variable
.B OPENCV_OPENCL_DEVICE
which takes a value such as
.B Intel:GPU:0
See OpenCV documentation for details.

.SH REFERENCES
The algorithm used for combining images is described in
.B Complex Wavelets for Extended Depth-of-Field: A New Method for the Fusion of Multichannel Microscopy Images
by B. Forster, D. Van De Ville, J. Berent, D. Sage and M. Unser.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Bugs can be reported at https://github.com/PetteriAimonen/focus-stack/issues

